- [Instructor] DevOps pipelines are a key enabler
to achieving the rapid delivery cadence
that draws most development teams towards microservices.
If you think of a pipeline as a function,
it accepts commits from a developer as inputs.
And in the ideal scenario,
outputs a container running the software the commit
was made against.
A lot happens between these two points.
First, the code needs to be written and committed,
which triggers the CI portion of the pipeline,
where the software is built and tested.
Then it's packaged into a container image stored
in the artifact repository.
When the CD portion of the pipeline is invoked,
it pulls the container out of the repository and deploys it
onto the container runtime using an orchestrator.
In this flow, there is ample opportunity
to inject automated security controls into the process.
These controls act as gates that prevent vulnerable code
or images from ever being deployed.
As a strategy, it's best to detect
and correct security vulnerabilities as early as possible
in this process to prevent them
from traveling further downstream towards production.
Starting with the actual development,
static code analysis tools
that run on developer workstations
can provide the first line of defense.
These tools alert developers to security issues
before they even reached the code repository.
Even with scans in place on developer workstations,
you should still run static code analysis on the CI build
and fail the build for code that doesn't live up
to the security standards.
Access to the source code repository should be limited
to actual contributors
and there should be a pull request model in place
that restricts who can commit code to release branches.
Some tools like sneak allow you
to incorporate security scans directly
into your pull requests, providing direct feedback
before the code hits the repository.
When a microservice is built, all third party libraries
should be sourced from a trusted artifact repository
that provides a central point to access approved libraries
and container images.
After the microservice is built into an artifact,
a barrage of unit and integration tests
are typically ran against it.
This provides an excellent point
to inject some interactive security testing.
These tests detect security issues while the code executes
and alerts you to them.
This provider it's additional feedback
that can help the tech vulnerabilities.
If all of the tests pass, the microservice is built
into a container image that is placed
in the artifact repository.
Here, a registry scanner, which has provided as a capability
in most artifact repositories can be used
to detect new vulnerabilities that have arisen
since the container was created.
Access to the artifact repository
should also be closely guarded.
This prevents anyone from going around the security gates
that are enforced by the pipeline.
After the CI pipeline finishes,
the CD pipeline triggers the container orchestrator
to deploy the microservice images to a lower environment
for further testing.
This process should have strict controls,
regarding the artifact version that is released.
It should ensure that the artifact has been vetted
through the earlier security gates.
The same control should be applied once again,
when an artifact is about to be released to production.
In lower environments, the microservice can be subjected
to dynamic testing that actively probes the service
for a slew of well-known vulnerabilities.
Typically, this is done through automated pen testing
where a tole scans and probes against the microservice.
These tools can integrate with the pipeline to gate
any vulnerable images from advancing to production.
Pipelines have many configurations.
So we've boiled our discussion down to some common points
within these platforms where security gates
can be introduced to better secure your microservices.
It is important to hone these automated security scans
to focus on critical vulnerabilities
because they can overwhelm development teams
with false positives that create alert fatigue.
Baking these security tests into your pipeline
can help keep up your release velocity
without compromising on security.